Extract rose/cylc from Run rAM3 page (#1106)
ACCESS-Hive/access-hive.github.io: docs/models/run_a_model/run_access-ram3.md

## About

{{ model }} is an ACCESS-NRI-supported configuration of the [UK Met Office (UKMO)](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/) Regional Nesting Suite for high-resolution regional atmosphere modelling. A description of the model and its components is available in the [{{ model }} overview]({{ access_models }}/#{{ model }}).

{{ model }} comprises multiple suites: the [Regional Ancillary Suite (RAS)](#ras) and [OSTIA Ancillary Suite (OAS)](#oas) that generate ancillary files (i.e., input files), and the [Regional Nesting Suite (RNS)](#rns) which runs the regional forecast.

> The instructions below outline how to run {{ model }} using ACCESS-NRI's supported configuration, specifically designed to run on the [National Computational Infrastructure (NCI)](https://nci.org.au/about-us/who-we-are) supercomputer [_Gadi_][gadi]. The example experiment within this page focuses on a flood event in Lismore, NSW on 26 and 27 February, 2022, using `BARRA` [land-surface initial conditions]({{ access_models }}/#land-surface-initial-conditions-source). For more details see [Nesting configuration]({{ access_models }}/#nesting-configuration). 

Reviewer: Typo: remove comma before year: "27 February 2022" which is consistent with the date format used further down the page.

## Prerequisites

> 

Author: Then maybe we can make that a bit more clear that we suggest those new to Rose/Cylc to go through that page.

```suggestion

!!! warning
    If you are new to Rose/Cylc, make sure you have read the guide on [running models using _Rose/Cylc_](/models/run-a-model/rose-cylc.md) before continuing on this page.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I like your phrasing!

- All [prerequisites listed on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](/rose_cylc.md#prerequisites).

- **Join NCI projects**<br>
    Join the following projects by requesting membership on their respective NCI project pages:

    - [access](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/access/join)
    - [ki32](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/ki32/join)
    - [ki32_mosrs](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/ki32_mosrs/join)
    - [rt52](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/rt52/join)
    - [ob53](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/ob53/join)
    - [vk83](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/vk83/join)
    - [cm45](https://my.nci.org.au/mancini/project/cm45/join)

>     _Time estimate: ~5 minutes to request the memberships, and up to several days for the membership requests to be approved_

Reviewer 2: Same as above

    !!! tip
        To request membership for the _ki32_mosrs_ subproject, you need to:
        
        - already be member of the _ki32_ project
        {: style="list-style-type: disc"}
        - have a [MOSRS account](rose_cylc.md#mosrs-account)
        {: style="list-style-type: disc"}

    For more information on joining specific NCI projects, refer to [How to connect to a project](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+connect+to+a+project).
    

!!! warning

>     The waiting time to complete some of the above prerequisites may be 2-3 weeks. See [prerequisites listed on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](/rose_cylc.md#prerequisites) for specific time estimates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The waiting time to complete some of the above prerequisites may be 2-3 weeks.
```
Related to the comment above about time estimates

> ## Quick Start guide

Author: Ok, I'll look into this more locally and push some updates later. You're right, if the page is indeed really streamlined then there will be no need for a quick guide.

## Quick Start guide

> These are the basic steps to run {{ model }}. For more detailed explanations and extra setup information for new users, please refer to the [Rose/Cylc page](rose_cylc.md) for the Rose/Cylc steps and the [Detailed guide](#detailed-guide) below for the {{ model }} steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This quick guide outlines the basic steps to run {{ model }} and is tailored to users who already have some experience running {{ model }}. For new users, please refer to the [Detailed guide](#detailed-guide) below that includes more explanations and extra setup information.
```

I don't think referring to the "Rose/Cylc" page is needed here, as we will do in the related Detailed guide sections.

- **Project** &rarr; a project of which you are a member.<br>

- **Storage** &rarr; `gdata/access+gdata/hr22+gdata/ki32+gdata/rt52+gdata/ob53+gdata/cm45+gdata/vk83` (minimum)<br>
    This is a list of all project data storage, joined by plus (`+`) signs, needed for the {{ model }} simulation. In ARE, storage locations need to be explicitly defined to access data from within a VDI instance.<br>
    Every {{ model }} simulation can be unique and input data can originate from various sources. Hence, if your simulation requires data stored in project folders other than the ones listed in the minimum storage above, you need to add those projects to the storage path.<br>
    For example, if your {{ model }} simulation requires data stored in `/g/data/<project-id>` and `/scratch/<project-id>`, the following should be added to the minimum storage above: `+gdata/<project-id>+scratch/<project-id>`

### Set up a persistent session

Follow the instructions in [Set up a persistent session on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](rose_cylc#set-up-a-persistent-session).

> #### Set up SSH-keys (once-only) {: .no-toc }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set up SSH-keys (once-only) {: .no-toc }
```

Follow the [initialization step](https://opus.nci.org.au/spaces/DAE/pages/249495793/Run+Cylc7+Suites#RunCylc7Suites-InitialisationStep(once-onlyforaccessdevcompatible-mode)) to accurately set up your ssh keys so you can run the model from outside of the persistent session.

### Set up Rose/Cylc

> Follow the instructions in [Set up Rose/Cylc on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](rose_cylc#set-up-rosecylc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up _Rose/Cylc_ by following the [related instructions in the _Rose/Cylc_ page](/models/run_a_model/rose_cylc/#rosecylc-setup).
```

!!! warning

>     _Cylc_ version >= `cylc7/24.03` required.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This warning is important and I would add it in the Rose/Cylc page instead.
Probably right after the `module load cylc` part.

Author: Will address this in future commit

The latest release branch of the RAS is `{{ branch_ras }}`.

#### Get the RAS configuration

Follow the instructions in [Get the model configuration on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](rose_cylc#get-the-model-configuration).
    

#### Run the RAS

> To run the RAS, follow the instructions in [Run the model configuration on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](rose_cylc#run-the-model-configuration).

Author: ```suggestion
Run the RAS by following the [related instructions on the _Rose/Cylc_ page](/models/run_a_model/rose_cylc/#run-the-model-configuration).
```

> 

Author: Will address in future commit

    Unless you are an experienced user, directly modifying configuration files is usually discouraged to avoid encountering errors.

##### Rose GUI {: #rosegui }

> Follow the instructions in [Rose GUI on the Run models using Rose/Cylc page](rose_cylc#rose-gui).

Reviewer 2: I would replace this section with something like:

> Basic instructions on how to edit a model configuration using the _Rose_ GUI can be found in the [related  Rose/Cylc page](/models/run_a_model/rose_cylc/#rose-gui).
